#summary JLib - DB connection pooling
#labels JLib
#sidebar JLibTOC

= What is Naca? [Naca0201 click here] =

= JLib - DB connection pooling =

== Standalone DB connection pooling manager ==

=== Usage ===

 Do the following operations in your application source file:

  import jlib.log.*;
  import jlib.sql.*;

 Create a DbConnectionManager instance:

  {{{
  DbConnectionManager manager = new DbConnectionManager();If you are using an oracle DB, call manager.initOracle(...) with parameters.
  }}}

 If you are using a DB2 DB, call manager.initDB2(...) with parameters.
 If you are using another DB, call manager.init(...) with parameters.

 For the 2 first calls, the parameters are:

  * dbUrl. For example : "jdbc:oracle:thin:@itsdev1.PUBLIGROUPE.NET:1521:ITSDB"
  * dbUser
  * dbPassword
  * dbUrlOptionalParameters; This parameter is optional and if if not null it is concatenated with the DB URL; it may contains variables that will be replaced at runtime:
    * $FoundPoolName that will be replaced by the connection pool name found
    * $RequestedPoolName that will be replaced by the connection pool name requested
  * Maximum number of connections that be maintained simultaneously in the connection pool.
  * Number of milliseconds the connection can remain unused in the pool. After this time is elapsed, the connection will be closed and freed asynchronously.
  * For DB other than Oracle or DB2, you must give a supplementary parameter giving the driver class for the db in use.

 You can provide optional parameters by calling:

  {{{
  manager.setAutoCommit(true);
  manager.setCloseCursorOnCommit(true);
  }}}

 In order to create a new connection, or to get it from the pool if one is available, call:

  {{{
  DbConnectionBase connection = manager.getConnection();Then, you can use the connection as required by application code.
  }}}

 To return the connection to the pool, in order to have it available at a later time, do the following:

  {{{
  connection.returnConnectionToPool();
  }}}
