#summary JLib - Logger - Usage
#labels JLib, Logger
#sidebar JLibTOC

= What is Naca? [Naca0201 click here] =

= JLib - Logger - Usage =

== JLib Logger usage ==

 The logger uses a XML configuration file to set the various supported output and their options.
 There is also some java methods to call for generating log events.

=== Program operations ===

 Create a configuration file as described below
 Initialize the global log object, by specifying it's configuration file:

  {{{
  Log.open("Test", "D:/Dev/JLogWriterTest/src/net/publigroupe/config/Logging.ini", "RunId", "ProductId");
  }}}

 Comments:

  The Field having value "Test" identifies the channel.
  The field RunId identifies the current run; Its optional. if not provided, it will be replaced by a unique value generated at run time, BUT ONLY If USING a DBFLAT LogCenter.
  The field ProductId identifies the products. It may be null if not required.

  These 2 last fields are optionals, but can be used to have results' filtering after process execution.

  * Do all applications operations, including sending log events:
    * Create a custom log class. You can use STModuleGen application to generate your custom log object.
    * Send the log to all available log writers:
    {{{
    LogEventEndCrawl.log(www.microsoft.com, nNbMilliseconds, "Crawling over");
    }}}

 The event will by dispatched synchronously to all enabled log writer.
 A log writer is enable if all the following conditions are met:

   * Its parameter "Enable" in configuration file is set to true, or if it's status has been dynamically set to true (to be done).
   * It's channel must matches log event channel. In previous sample, the channel is "Test". It is provided in the static log method, at the line Log.log(<Channel>, event, Message).
   * It's flow must be either "any" or exactly match the flow indicated in the log event constructor.
   * It's level must be lower or equal than the level declared by log event constructor; the valid levels are given in descending order:
     * Critical
     * Important
     * Normal
     * Verbose
     * Debug
     * FineDebug

 At program end, close logger:

  {{{
  Log.close();
  }}}
