#summary JLib - Logger - Configuration
#labels JLib, Logger
#sidebar JLibTOC

= What is Naca? -->[Naca0201 click here] =

= JLib - Logger - Configuration =

== JLib Logger configuration file format settings ==

=== Sample ===

 {{{
 <?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
 <Organisation Id="Sample">
 	<Settings GetCallerLocation="true|false">
 		<CallLocation Exclude="jlib"/>
 		<CallLocation Exclude="nacaLib"/>
 	</Settings>
 	<LogCenters>
 		<LogCenter
 			Channel= "Test"
 			Enable="True"
 			Mode="Console"
 			Level="Normal"
 			Flow="Any"
 			Format="App>%Timestamp (%ThreadName): %Message%CR"
 			/>
 		<LogCenter
 			Channel= "Test"
 			Enable="True"
 			Mode="FileST6"
 			FilePath="D:/Dev/JLogWriterTest/LogOuput/LogFile/"
 			FileName="Log.log"
 			FileStrategy="BackupOnstart"
 			Level="Debug"
 			Flow="Trace">
 			<Backup
 				BackupPath="./LogBackup"
 				BackupFileFormat="[BackupDateTime]_Log.NacaRuntime.BakLog"
 				MaxBackupFileCount="20"
 			/>
 		</LogCenter>
 		<LogCenter
 			Channel= "Test"
 			Enable="True"
 			Mode="FileRawLine"
 			FilePath="D:/Dev/JLogWriterTest/LogOuput/LogRawLine/"
 			FileName="RawLine.txt"
 			FileStrategy="BackupOnstart"
 			Level="Debug"
 			Flow="Any">
 			<Backup
 				BackupPath="./RawLineBackup"
 				BackupFileFormat="[BackupDateTime]_Log.NacaRuntime.BakLog"
 				MaxBackupFileCount="20"
 			/>
 		</LogCenter>
 		<LogCenter
 			Enable="true"
 			Channel="Test"
 			Mode="Db"
 			Level="Debug"
 			Flow="Any"
 			DbUser="dblog"
 			DbPassword="pwd4dblog"
 			DbUrl="jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1/dblog"
 			DbProvider="MySQL"
 			MasterTable="LogMaster"
 			DetailsTable="LogDetails"
 			/>
 		<LogCenter
 			Enable="true"
 			Channel="Test"
 			Mode="DbFlat"
 			Level="Debug"
 			Flow="Any"
 			DbUser="dblog"
 			DbPassword="pwd4dblog"
 			DbUrl="jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1/dblog"
 			DbProvider="MySQL"
 			Table="Log_Events"
 			TableRunId="Log_RunId"
                        Machine="C930SRV5"
                        Process="CRAWLER"
                        RunMode="TLOG"
                        LogEventDefinitionTable="Log_Definitions"
                        NbRequestBufferSize="10"
 			/>
 	</LogCenters>
 </Organisation>
 }}}

=== Syntax ===

 {{{
 <?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
 <Organisation Id=String>
 	<Settings GetCallerLocation="true|false">
 		[<CallLocation Exclude=String/>]*
 	</Settings>
 	<LogCenters>
 		[<LogCenter
 			Channel= String
 			Enable=Boolean
                        NbRequestBufferSize=Integer
                        Asynchronous=Boolean
                        Mode="Console"  | "FileST6" | "FileRawLine" | "FileSTCheck" | "FileChunk" | "Db"
                        Level="Critical" | "Important" | "Normal" | "Verbose" | "Debug" | "FineDebug"
 			Flow="System" | "Monitoring" | "Trace" | "Any" | "None"
 			[Only for Mode=Console or Mode=FileRawLine
                        Format="Texte|%Message|%ThreadName|%ThreadId|%Timestamp|% StartTime|%CR|%LF"]
 			[For File* modes
 				FilePath=String
 				FileName=String
 				FileStrategy="Append" | "BackupOnstart"
 				<Backup
 					BackupPath="./LogBackup"
 					BackupFileFormat=String
 					MaxBackupFileCount=Number
 			        />]
                        [For Db Mode
 				DbUser=String
 				DbPassword=String
 				DbUrl=String
 				DbProvider="MySQL"|"Oracle"|"DB2"
 				MasterTable=String
 				DetailsTable= String]
                        [For DB Flat mode
 			        Mode="DbFlat"
                   		DbUser=String
 			        DbPassword=String
 			        DbUrl=String
 			        DbProvider="MySQL"|"Oracle"|"DB2"
 			        Table=String
 			        TableRunId=String
                                Machine=String
                                Process=String
                                RunMode=String
                                LogEventDefinitionTable=String
 			/>
 		</LogCenter>]*
 	</LogCenters>
 </Organisation>
 }}}

=== Tag explanations ===

==== Tags ====

  * Settings/GetCallerLocation: True if tack call must be logged; false otherwise
  * Settings/CallLocation/Exclude: The value give the name of a java package that must be ignored form stack call. Multiple tags may be specified
  * LogCenters/ LogCenter: There may be multiple tags, each with it's own particularities
  * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Enable: Boolean that indicates whether the log channel is enable or not
  * LogCenters/ LogCenter / NbRequestBufferSize: Integer that defines how many requests will be grouped befors being flush on output writers
  * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Asynchronous: Boolean that defines if the writing operation is done asynchronously or not.
  * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Channel: Identifies the channel that can be used to send data to this log center. Only log event belonging to the correct channel can be sent by this log writer.
  * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Mode: Identifies 2 things:
  * The destination (Console, File or Database)
  * The formatting for file output
     Value must belong to: "Console" |"FileST6"|"FileRawLine"|"FileSTCheck" |"FileChunk"|"Db"
  * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Level: Identifies the minimum level value acceptable for a log line to be written.
     Value must belong to: "Critical" | "Important" | "Normal" | "Verbose" | "Debug" | "FineDebug"
  * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Flow: Identifes which flow can be catch by current LogCenter.
     Value must belong to: "System" | "Monitoring" | "Trace" | "Any" | "None"
     "Any" indicates that no restriction on flow is done
     "None" desactivate the current LogCenter: it will never receive any log.

==== Specifics items depending on Mode ====

  * For Console Mode or RawLine Mode:
    * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Format: format is currently used only by mode="Console".
       A formatting string can be specified; it can contains embedded variable placeholders:
    * %Message: Replace by the log message
    * %ThreadName: Replaced the thread name
    * %ThreadId: Relaced by the thread id
    * %Timestamp: Replaced by the time stamp at which log was called; it is different form current time
    * % StartTime: Number of milliseconds that elapsed since process startup. Determined at log call time
    * %CR: Carriage return char
    * %LF: Line feed char

  * For File Mode:
    * LogCenters/ LogCenter / FilePath: String that give an absolute or relative path where logs files are stored; the path is created is necessary.
    * LogCenters/ LogCenter / FileName: String that gives the name of the log file; It is created as necessary.
    * LogCenters/ LogCenter / FileStrategy: "Append" | "BackupOnstart"; Indicates what to do upon process startup with the current (if existing) log file.
    * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Backup / BackupPath: Path used if "BackupOnstart" Filestrategy is declared for current LogCenter. It is created as necessary
    * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Backup / BackupFileFormat: File name of the backup file within backup path. The name can contains the reserved keywords:
      * BackupDateTime: It is replaced at backup time by the current displayable date time in format YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS
    * LogCenters/ LogCenter / Backup / MaxBackupFileCount: Number of file to keep in backup directory. Only the most recent one are kept, old one are removed definitly.

  * For Database mode (Mode="Db"):
    * DbUser: String that gives the db connection user
    * DbPassword: String that gives the db connection password
    * DbUrl: String that gives the db connection url
    * DbProvider: Either "MySQL", "Oracle" or "DB2" depending on DB service used
    * MasterTable: Name of the table used as the log master. the table structure is described below

==== XML parameters ====

  * DbUser must give the name of the DB user to use
  * DbPassword must give the password of the DB user to use
  * DbUrl must give the URL of the DB instance to use
  * DbProvider: one of "MySQL"|"Oracle"|"DB2" (currently, only "MySQL" is supported, other are to be done)
  * Table: Gives the name of the table used for log event write
  * TableRunId: Gives the name of the table used to generate a RuntimeId, and a RunId if none are provided at Log.open() time
  * Machine: Gives the name of the machine execution the process to be logged
  * Process: Give the name of the process to be logged
  * RunMode: Gives a string identifying the run mode (TLog / Prod, ...)
  * LogEventDefinitionTable: Gives the name of the table used for event definition registration

=== Standard log events and events type ===

 There are various already built standard events. All these events must identify the channel they are using.
 
   * LogEventStartProcess: Typed LogEventType.Start; Automatically sent when the logger is started. Nothing to do at the application level.
   * LogEventStopProcess: Typed LogEventType.Stop; Must be sent when application is being shutdown.
   * LogEventAbortProcess: Typed LogEventType.Abort; Must be sent when application is being aborted.
   * LogEventProgress: Typed LogEventType.Progress; Must be sent when an item processing is being progressing, and we want to get a trace of the advancements. 3 parameters are to be provided: int nNbItemsProcessed, int nNbItemsToProcess, String csMessage. The message can be null.
   * LogEventReport: Typed LogEventType.Report; Must be sent when an item processing is finished. 3 parameters must be provided: int nNbItemsProcessed, int nNbItemsSucessfullyProcess, String csMessage; the message can be null.
   * LogEventLaunchProcess: Typed LogEventType.Launch; Must be sent before launching another process. 2 other parameters must be provided: , LaunchedRunId, and and optinalMessage. The LaunchedRunId must match the parameter that will be given in the launched process as a RunId in the Log.open() method. This enables log viewers to chain logically the 2 processes.
   * LogEventAliveProcess: Typed LogEventType.Process; Must be sent to report that the process is alive.

 It is important to use these standard events as required, because they are intended in log viewer application for post execution analysis.

 All these standards events provides 2 different log() methods, with or without a String csProduct argument. If no csProduct is provided, then the default csProduct value given at log.open() time is used, otherwise it's the specified value that is used.

=== Sample custom log object ===

 {{{
 package net.publigroupe.logEvent;
 import jlib.log.*;
 
 public class LogEventEndCrawl extends LogEvent
 {
 public LogEventEndCrawl(String csProduct)
 
 Unknown macro: { super(LogEventType.Rem, LogFlow.Any, LogLevel.Normal, csProduct); }
 public static LogEvent log(String csUrl, int nNbMs, String csMessage)
 {
 return LogEventEndCrawl.log(null, csUrl, nNbMs, csMessage);
 }

 public static LogEvent log(String csProduct, String csUrl, int nNbMs, String csMessage)

 Unknown macro: { LogEventEndCrawl event = new LogEventEndCrawl(csProduct); event.fillMember("URL", csUrl); event.fillMember("NbMs", nNbMs); Log.log("Test", event, csMessage); return event; }
 }
 }}}

 Explanations: The constructor gives the event type, Flow restriction and minimal level that this log applies to.
 The first static method log(...) is the log event call using the default product, specified at log.open() time.
 The second static method log(...) is the log event call using a specific product, replacing the value specified at log.open() time.
