#summary JLib - XML Support

= JLib - XML Support =

== XML Tag manager ==

 JLib supports easy XML parsing, by wrapping Xerces parser.

== XML Data read ==

 XML Data can be easily read form an XML source.

 Example:

  {{{
  Tag tagRoot = Tag.createFromFile(m_csIniFilePath);
  	if(tagRoot != null)
  	{
  		String csLogCfg = tagRoot.getVal("LogSettingsPathFile");
  		Tag tagLogSettings = Log.open("NacaRT", csLogCfg);
  		if (tagLogSettings != null)
  		{
  			Tag tagSettings = tagLogSettings.getChild("Settings");
  			if(tagSettings != null)
  			{
  				isLogCESM = tagSettings.getValAsBoolean("CESM");
  				isLogFlow = tagSettings.getValAsBoolean("Flow");
  			}
  		}
  	}
  }}}

 Explanations:

  {{{
  Tag tagRoot = Tag.createFromFile(m_csIniFilePath);
  }}}

  Open a XML file and fill a document.
  
  {{{
  String csLogCfg = tagRoot.getVal("LogSettingsPathFile");
  }}}

  Read a parameter inside the current tag. The parameter name is provided.

  {{{
  Tag tagSettings = tagLogSettings.getChild("Settings");
  }}}
  
  Get the first named child of a tag ; tagSettings will be null if no child of this name exists.

  {{{
  isLogCESM = tagSettings.getValAsBoolean("CESM");
  }}}

  Get a named parameter's value as boolean.

  You can enumerate all the children of a tag:

  {{{
  Tag tagLogCenter = tagLogCenters.getEnumChild("LogCenter");
  while(tagLogCenter != null)
  	{
  	String csChannel = tagLogCenter.getVal("Channel");
  	// Do something with csChannel
  	tagLogCenter = tagLogCenters.getEnumChild();
  	}
  Tag tagLogCenter = tagLogCenters.getEnumChild("LogCenter");
  }}}

  Returns the first child tag named LogCenters. An enumeration is read to be processed on next call.

  It's value will be null when all identically named children tags will have been read.

  {{{
  tagLogCenter = tagLogCenters.getEnumChild();Get the next child tag with the same name.
  }}}

  A textual parameter value can be read by calling:

  {{{
  Tag.getNodeVal();
  }}}

 Example:

  {{{
  <Parent>
      <Node>
  	SomeData
      </Node>
  </Parent>Tag tagNode = tagParent.getChild(« Node »);

  if(tagNode != null)
  {
      String csData = tagNode.getNodeVal() ;	// csData will be filled with « SomeData »
      ...
  }
  }}}

 Other APIs are available through Tag class.

== XML Data write ==

 A root tag is created by calling:

  {{{
  Tag tagRoot = new Tag (« root »);
  }}}

 A child tag is appended by calling:

  {{{
  Tag tagLogCenters = tagOrganisation.addTag("LogCenters");
  }}}

  In this sample, tagLogCenters is a child of tagOrganisation. It is named « LogCenters ».

 A value parameter is added to the current tag by calling:

  {{{
  Tag.addVal(« Name », nValue);
  }}}

  The parameter types can be: String, int, long, boolean.

 A value parameter can be removed by calling:

  {{{
  tag.removeVal(« Parameter Name »);
  }}}

 A parameter existence can be checked by calling:

  {{{
  isValExisting(Name);
  }}}

 A Tag can by serialized to a file by calling:

  {{{
  tag.exportToFile(String filename);
  }}}

 It can also be set in a string by calling:

  {{{
  String cs = tag.exportToString();
  }}}