#summary Naca - Whitepaper - Testing
#labels Naca, Whitepaper, Testing
#sidebar NacaTOC
= Naca - Whitepaper - Testing =

== Introduction ==

 Tests are critical to a successful migration preparation.
 It requires various steps for a given transaction, and all programs must be thoroughly controlled.
 What's more, testing online transaction implies different controls from testing batch programs.

== Testing ==

=== Testing Online transactions ===

 The following operations are typically done for a test:

  Scenario creation; done only at a preliminary stage:
    * First, the Database is setup in known state.
    * Then, a scenario is created.
      This is done manually by running an instrumented 3270 terminal emulator that executes the targeted application in the host environment.
    * These scenarios are kept and managed centrally in the NacaTools Web server, with the queries that had setup the database in it's initial state.

  Scenario playback, executed at will:
    * This database tables are setup in the initial state.
    * Then can scenario is replayed at will in the host environment, or in the Naca environments.
      This playback can be manual or automatic, by virtue of the NacaTools web server.
    * Screens outputs produced in both execution modes are comparable, and the NacaTools web server provides a mean to automate these comparisons.
    * The comparison's results generate a status, reflecting the correctness of the Naca mode execution.
      Some screen fields can be safely ignored by the automatic comparer.
      For example, the displayed current date or time is not to be taken in account by the comparison process.
    * Database state after execution can be compared to the database state after scenario creation.
      Thus, the database state after execution in Naca environment must be identical to the database state after scenario capture within the Host environment.
    * A playback status is affected to a scenario, giving coverage statistics.

 All the scenario playback sequence can be automated in the NacaTools server:
  * database reset
  * scenario execution by Naca or host environment
  * comparison of produced outputs
  * comparisons of database state

 Thus the following tools are offered:
  * CICS scenario registration, using specially modified QWS 3270 terminal emulation software.
    These executions are targeted to the mainframe computer.
  * Automatic or manual CICS scenario playback through this 3270 terminal emulation software, capturing outputs screens.
    These executions are targeted to the mainframe.
  * Manual CICS scenario playback through a web browser, executing programs into the Naca environments.
  * Automatic CICS scenario playback through specific open source terminal emulator, executing programs into the Naca environments.
  * Automatic comparison of outputs produced by executing a scenario in 3270 mode, or naca mode.
  * Before scenario registration and playback, the database can be set-up in a known state.
  * After scenario playback, the database state can be checked.
  * All these operation can be centrally managed by the NacaTools web-server.

 To sum up, showing only screen output comparisons:

 <http://rwrerw>

=== Batch testing ===

 Batch programs are tested by using a different pattern.

 The following steps are done to test a program, within a application chain.

 A complete batch chain test is different from a single program test.
 This point is not covered in this document.

 The first steps for testing a single batch program are done on the mainframe environment:
  * Program is identified.
  * Program input files are identified.
  * Database is set in an known state.
  * Program is run on the mainframe, producing displayed outputs and output files.

 The input files, outputs files and database initial setup are then stored in the NacaTools website.

 This file transfers are done by using a NacaTools option.
 The files character encoding may be changed from EBCDIC to ASCII at will during the transfer.
 Care is taken to not converter non convertible fields, for example comp-3 numeric encoded fields.

 Then, at will, the transcoded Java program can be run from the Naca environment.

 A run test consists in the following operations:
  * Database is setup again in the initial stage.
  * The program is launched either form the command line, or through NacaTools.
    It is provided with file logical names. Files can be either encoded in EBCDIC or ASCII forms.
  * After program execution, output produced files are compared to the host originated output files.
    These comparisons take care of course of the files' respective encodings.
    That is an ASCII Java produced file can be compared to an EBCDIC host produced file.
  * Display outputs are also compared between the two executions mode.
  * At last, it's possible to compare the database tables.
  * All these comparisons are centrally done by the NacaTools web server, and generated a test status to the program.

 Note about database: The mainframe environment implies DB2 usage for Database operations.
 However, Naca supports Host DB2, or UDB.
 These two different instances can used at will during program execution in the Naca environment, to check for differences in DB operations.
 This is to be done in particular in regards to data EBCDIC / ASCII encoding. NacaRT hides lots of encodings complexities.
