#summary NacaRT - Tests
#labels NacaRT, Tests
#sidebar NacaRTTOC

= What is Naca? [-->Naca0201 click here] =

= NacaRT - Tests =

== Introduction ==

 Many cobol like statements are unit-tested by the Naca sub-project NacaRTTests.

 These tests are not junit tests, but are in fact cobol-like hand written programs that checks semantics of transcoded verbs.

 The main.java is a launcher that executes all tests.
 If a test fails, then an excpetion is sent.

 It is mandatory that all tests performs correctly.
 If nacaRT is modified in some way, the tests must be checked. If a test fails dur to some modification of nacaRT, then either:

  * nacaRT has a bug that is shown by the test, so nacaRT must be corrected.
  * the test is wrong, then it must be corrected.

== Tests coverage ==

The various aspects covered by the tests are:

  * program support
  * copy support
  * Working storage variable allocation
  * Occurs item, Groups, Redefintio of variables
  * Variable typing support
  * Alphanumeric variable support
  * Right justification words
  * Numeric variable support, including Comp0, comp3, comp4 encoding, with(/out) sign
  * Numeric edited variables support
  * variable redefinition
  * program calling
  * program linking
  * parameter passing between programs, including linkage storage section
  * String, Unstring, Inspect, Concat handling
  * Maths
  * Conditions
  * Queues
  * Paragraph/section perform/goto
  * Screen map defintion
  * Screen map redefintion
  * SQL statement
  * misc cobol like verbs
