#summary NacaWhitepaper - NacaRT Cobol support

= NacaRT Cobol support =

== Introduction ==

 NacaRT supports a lot of Cobol verbs, in a Java as similar as possible syntax form it's Cobol roots.

 The various Cobol statements and specificities are described in this section.

== Variables ==

 Cobol has a very specific way to deal with variables declarations.
 These manner are enforced by NacaRT.

=== Working storage section and linkage section ===

 These sections support:
  * Structured typed variable declarations.
  * Copy, supporting copy files or Map definition files.
  * Copy replacing, supporting copy files or Map definition files.

 Copies are not inlined at transcoding or compilation time, but rather are resolved at runtime.
 The effect is identical from the program owner point of view, but it enables an update of all programs that declares a single modified Copy source file.

 The Copy replacing construct enables to replace the level only, not part of the variables names...

=== Variables ===

 The variable have the following properties:
  * They are organized by levels and sub-levels with number ranging form 1 to 49, as in Cobol.
  * They can redefine themselves explicitly or implicitly.
  * They can be grouped.
  * Occurs are supported an any simple or composite variable, with up to 3 indexes.
    That is NacaRT supports a maximum of 3 indexes. this can be changed if required.
  * Levels 77 are not redefinables.
  * Levels 66 and 88 are manageable as conditions, which eases their manipulation.
    This is optional.
  * They all have a unique name, within the scope of a transcoding program.
  * This unique name is similar to the Cobol original one, except when a name conflict occurs.
    This happens for example by the inclusion of a Copy file which defines a variable with a name already assigned to a variable.
    Cobol deals in that situation by requiring the usage of the "Of" scope resolution keyword.
    In Naca, the transcoder detects these situations and generates a unique name to avoid these conflicts.
    This generated name remains however easily readable.
  * They are typed.  This is detailed in the next chapter.

=== Supported variable types ===

 The variable supports multiple types, and respects the original default Cobol alignment and padding rule when writing into these variables.

 The supported types include:
  * Group.
  * Alphanumeric.
  * Numerical
    * Comp-0 sign or unsigned, with or without decimals.
    * Comp-0 with embedded sign.
    * Comp-0 with separated trailing or separated leading sign.
    * Comp-3 sign or unsigned with or without decimals.
    * Comp-4 sign or unsigned with or without decimals.
    * Numeric edited with mask.
    * Alphanumeric edited with mask.
  * Edits. This is an abstraction from the fields of a CICS map, and helps greatly screen handling.
  * Form, maps and redefinition of maps: These are CICS Map abstractions helping screen handling.

=== Linkage section and parameter passing ===

 Linkage section of a called program receives arguments passed by caller program by value, reference, or length.

== Execution flow ==

 Cobol program uses perform and goto keywords for flow execution.
 Paragraphs and sections are used to delimiter part of the code. Returns are implicit.

 All theses characteristics are fully supported by NacaRT:
  * Procedure division declaration.
  * Paragraph declaration.
  * Section declaration.
  * Execution of the program at the beginning of the Procedure division.
    Parameters can be provided by caller.
    Then can be passed by value, reference, or their length be specified.
  * Perform paragraph, automatically returning to caller when reaching paragraph's end.
  * Perform section; executing all paragraph in order until the end of the section.
  * Perform through paragraph to paragraph.
  * Perform until.
  * Perform varying.
  * Goto paragraph.
  * Goto section.
  * Goback.
  * Exit program.
  * Exit.
  * Stop run.

== Program types ==

 All transcoded program are derived from a NacaRT base class.
 This base class provides some functionality required by application code.
 However, they all share a common Cobol language support.

  * OnlineProgram: CICS program, running in a CICS transaction.
  * BatchProgrram: Batch program.
  * CalledProgram: It be either a:
    * Stored procedure, executed in UDB.
    * Call routine.

== Operations on variables ==

 A typical Cobol program manipulates lots of variables.
 They are described below.

=== Access ===

  * Variables are accessible by their name.
  * A variable may be defined in the working storage section, linkage section, or a copy file.
  * If a linkage section variable refers to a variable passed by reference by a caller program, then writing in the linkage section variable modifies the caller's variable.
  * A variable can be access by it's definition, or through another one that redefines it.
    Typing is taken in account however.
  * If a variable is part of one or many occurs, then it's indexe(s) must be specified. A maximum of 3 indexes is supported.
  * Filler variable reserve memory space that cannot be used directly.

=== Comparisons ===

  * All comparisons can be done on ASCII or EBCDIC data.
  * All combinations of comparisons are supported.
  * Comparisons can be done between two variables, or one variable and a Java primitive native variable.
    Type conversions are provided as required by Cobol specifications.

=== Cobol constant ===

  * High value
  * Low value
  * Zero
  * Space

 Constants can be compared to any variable.

=== Conditions support and not-redefinable variables ===

  * Level 88 & 66 declaration supports.
  * Level 77 is supported.

== Supported Keywords ==

=== Move ===

  * move from any variable type to any variable type, as enabled by Cobol MVS syntax.
  * move from java native type to any variable type.
  * move from any cobol constant to any variable type.
  * move from Edit (or Edit redefinition) to any variable type.
  * move from Edit (or Edit redefinition) to any Edit (or Edit redefinition).
  * move from variable to Form (or map redefine).
  * move from Form (or map redefine) to variable.
  * moveAll from any variable type to any variable type or Edit.
  * move corresponding.

=== Initialize ===

  * initialize form.
  * initialize any variable type.
  * initialize replacing with numeric value.
  * initialize replacing with alpha numeric value.
  * initialize replacing with numeric edition.

=== Program calling with argument passed by reference, value or length ===

  * Call.
  * CICS XCTL.
  * Commarea is supported in online programs.

=== SQL Support ===

  * DB2 / UDB support. Some Oracle DB is provided in NacaRT, but not deeply tested.
  * Dynamic SQL.
  * Cursor Open, close, Fetch.
  * Automatic closing of cursors at transaction shutdown.
  * Update/Delete current record.
  * Tablespace prefix added dynamically. This dynamic tablespace prefix addition greatly simplifies deployment of transcoded program in different DB environments, as this information is not stored in the DB statement, but in a unique configuration file.
  * Select, insert, update, delete clauses.
  * Sorted Procedure call, passing in/out/inout parameters...
  * SQLCode access.
  * SQL Diagnostic code access.
  * Checking against an SQL Code.
  * Explicit commit.
  * Explicit rollback.
  * For online programs (CICS), transactions are managed.
  * Connection pooling, statement pooling is managed for performance reasons.

=== String handling ===

  * Concat with optional delimiter (variable / space / size).
  * digits.
  * String.
  * Unstring.
  * Inspect Replacing / Tallying.
  * Substring handling:
    * substring extraction.
    * moveSubStringZero.
    * moveSubStringSpace.
    * moveSubStringLowValue.
    * moveSubStringHighValue.

=== Math ===

  * Add.
  * Opposite.
  * Subtract.
  * Divide.
  * Multiply.
  * Compute.
  * ComputeRounded.
  * Inc (increments).
  * Dec (decrements).

 All Cobol originated variables can be manipulated by these mathematics methods.

=== Miscellaneous ===

  * AdressOf, enabling pointer support of any variable.
  * Setting JVM return code.
  * Current Date / time support.
  * Display.
  * Console input / accept.

== CICS operations ==

 These operations are reserved to online programs.

  * Map support.
  * Map redefines support.
  * BMS maps are transcoded into XML resource and a Java copy file.
  * Simplified handling of map entry fields; they are transcoded in Edits Java objects, with simple access to attributes.
  * Pointer support for CWA / TCTUA / TWA.
  * Key handling.
  * Commarea support.
  * Return transaction.
  * Abend.
  * Condition handling.
  * CICS link/XCTL with commarea support and arguments passed by value / reference / length.
  * Temporary queue.
  * CICS retrieve.
  * Return code.
  * Send map.
  * CICS Start asynchronously.

== Batch operations ==

=== Sequential file support ===

  * Fixed length records support.
  * Variable length records support.
  * If the file record length is unknown at runtime, then a deterministic management of fixed / variable length records settings is achieved.
  * Files are identified by a logical name. This logical name is mapped to a physical name for Java File system access by various means.
  * Files open in input, output, input and output, extended.
  * File close.
  * Automatic close of open files at program execution end.
  * write.
  * write from.
  * rewrite.
  * rewrite form.
  * read.
  * read into.
  * internal sort:
    * sort.
    * release.
    * return sort.
  * Files can be read in EBCDIC or ASCII.
  * Files can be written in EBCDIC or ASCII.

== Batch utilities ==

  * External sort using same sort criterias as MVS external sort tool. Files can be encoding in EBCDIC or ASCII at will.
  * DB2 / UDB Database table loader / unloader / function executor / table transfer from one DB instance to another.
  * File encoding Converter (ascii -> ebcdic or ebcdic -> ascii).
  * Mail generation.
  * File generation support.

== Stored procedure ==

  * DB2 Cobol stored procedure transcoded into UDB java stored procedure.
  * They respect the specifications of stored procedure interfaces.
  * They run in an IBM JRE >= 1.5, in the context of the DB engine instance.
  * IBM JRE doesn't supports JMX services, so they NacaRT deactivates JMX in this running mode.
  * They are run in a UDB instance.
  * They are accessible by any external stored procedure caller, written in any DB compliant language.
