#summary NacaRT - JMX Console - Loaded programs (Prog.xxx)
#labels NacaRT, JMX Console
#sidebar NacaRTTOC

= What is Naca? -->[Naca0201 click here] =

== NacaRT - JMX Console - Loaded programs (Prog.xxx) ==

=== Details of the loaded programs (Prog.xxx) ===

 Each program loaded in memory has an entry in the left column. There can be several entries.
 Each program loaded in memory has an entry as a MBean and is visible in the left column.
 There can be several programs loaded in the same time.
 The following production informations can be displayed:
  * the number of created instances
  * the number of running instances
  * the number of available instances in the pool of programs (that means already executed, and that will have a short execution preparation time)
  * the total number of executions
  * the size in character (16 bits) and the working storage section (Cobol)
  * minimum, maximum and mean execution duration
  * date/hour of the first and the last execution

 The tab "Operation" is giving access to a command to dynamically unload a program:

 We can therefore enforce the unload of a program using {{{unloadProgram}}}.
 This will results in preventing a new execution of program till all the running instances are closed and returned back to the pool.
 All the instances of the program are destroyed and the code program is unloaded from the memory.
 All the execution requests are then allowed again, and the new version will be loaded when necessary.
 The update procedure at runtime is:
  * Update the new {{{.class}}} and its associated paragraphs in the folder identified by the variable {{{ApplicationClassPath}}} in the configuration file.
    Beware, a program {{{xxx}}} is built of a {{{xxx.class}}} and as many files {{{xxx$nnn.class}}} as there are paragraphs in the program (nnn is a number).
    All those files have to be updating at the same time.
  * Request an {{{unloadProgram}}} using the JMX interface.
