#summary NacaRT - Configuration - Online specific parameters
#labels NacaRT, Configuration
#sidebar NacaRTTOC

= What is Naca? [Naca0201 click here] =

= NacaRT - Configuration - Online specific parameters =

== Specific parameters ==

 These parameters are used only for online programs.

=== User interface element configuration ===

==== Parameters ====

 {{{conf/XSLFilePath}}}
 String parameter giving the full file name of the xslt file that transforms the XML data into HTML file sent to the browser.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/HelpXSLFilePath}}}
 String parameter that gives the full file name of a xslt file used to produce the help screen.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/resourcePath}}}
 String parameter that gives the full directory path where screen resource files are stored.
 These are the *.res files that describes all screen graphical layout.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/XMLFrameFilePath}}}
 String that gives the full file name of the xml file that describes the HTML frame layout.
 This page is defining the title position, the menus, the icons, the surface reserved for application screens.
 Typically, this is <path>/xmlPage.xml
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/EmulWebRootPath}}}
 String that gives the full path and file name for EmulWeb mode.
 This mode is not used in production environment, and is reserved for development process.
 It must be set as {{{EmulWebRootPath=""}}}.
 Optional field.

 {{{conf/httpSessionMaxInactiveInterval_s}}}
 Number of seconds that a http session is holded within tomcat container.
 This parameter is automatically closing an open session after a timeout of user inactivity.
 It must not be too long in order for the user not to loose their work.
 On the opposite, it must not be too long, as each open session has a cost in terms of resource in a server.
 It can be setup with a large value, as a session doesn't use too much resources.
 The typical value is {{{"10800"}}} (3 hours).

 {{{conf/CacheResourceFiles}}}
 Boolean value
 Set this flag to "true" to enable caching of .res files.
 These files are then loaded and cached during server startup.
 Resource file cache can be updated by clicking a button in the JMX console.
 If it's set to false, then .res files are loaded at every user request.
 This is discouraged.

==== LDap configuration ====

 nacaRT uses an initial LDAP login for users authentication.
 There can be maximum 3 differents LDAP servers, which are queried simultaneously.

 {{{conf/LDAPServer}}}
 Identifies the DNS name of the first LDAP autentication server. Must be filled.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/LDAPServer2}}}
 Identifies the DNS name of the second LDAP autentication server. Can be an empty, if only one authentication serveris used.

 {{{conf/LDAPServer3}}}
 Identifies the DNS name of the third and last LDAP autentication server. Can be an empty, if only one or two authentication servers are used.

 {{{conf/LDAPRootOU}}}
 Root OU; example is {{{DAPRootOU="OU=FUTUR_PUBLIGROUPE,DC=Publigroupe,DC=net"}}}.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/LDAPGenericUser}}}
 Generic LDap user

 {{{conf/LDAPGenericPassword}}}
 Generic LDap password

=== Transaction definition and translation support ===

 These resources are defined in the tag conf/SequencerConfig.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/TransIDMappingFilePath}}}
 Gives the full path and file name of an XML file that contains mappings between transaction name and 1st program running this transaction.
 This file is then used by nacaRT to identify which program must be run when a transaction has been launched.
 NacaRT is using the notion of CICS transaction, as original applications, but can load only programs. Therefore, this file is making the link between the 2 notions.
 The XML file structure is:
  {{{
  <?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
  <root>
  	[<transid id="cics_transaction_name" program="program_name"/>] *
  </root>
  }}}
 This field is mandatory.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/TranslationFilePath}}}
 Gives the full path and file name of an XML file that contains multilingual texts used by the custom help system.
 This field is mandatory.

 === Asynchronously launched programs ===

 An optionnal list of program to launch asynchronously can be setup.
 These programs will be launched after the application server is started.
 They are described by a list of tag {{{<Program>}}} within tag {{{<StartPrograms>}}} within tag {{{<SequencerConfig>}}}, itself with tag {{{<conf>}}}.
 Each program is run in it's own thread.
 The thread is created immediatly after server startup, but the program may wait a given number of second before being actually executed.

 It is possible to have several <Program> tags, but only one couple of tags <name> and <delaySeconds> per tag <Program>.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/StartPrograms/Program/name}}}
 String value.
 Gives the name of a program to launch asynchronously after server startup.
 A custom thread is allocated for each program.
 Only 1 instance of the program is created.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/StartPrograms/Program/delaySeconds}}}
 Integer value.
 Number of seconds to wait after having created and launched the custom thread before actually executing the program's code.
 Mandatory field.

=== User login and help ===

 When a user first connect to the nacaRT, a login screen is displayed on it's browser.
 This screen is a custom one, as well as the help screen.
 These elements are configured in tag {{{<CESMConfig>}}} of tag {{{<SequencerConfig>}}}, itself within {{{<conf>}}}.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/CESMConfig/StartProgramId}}}
 Gives the name of the first program to launch when a new http session is started by a new user.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/CESMConfig/StartCommandCode}}}
 Identifies how this program is executed. It must be set to {{{"XCTL"}}}.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/CESMConfig/HelpCenterClassName}}}
 Gives the full class name of the help program.
 Mandatory field.
