#summary NacaRT - Configuration - Common parameters - SQL Connections
#labels NacaRT, Configuration
#sidebar NacaRTTOC

= What is Naca? [-->Naca0201 click here] =

= NacaRT - Configuration - Common parameters - SQL Connections =

== Introduction ==

 SQL connections are pooled for performance reasons.
 There can be a connection pool by program.

 The DB connection parameters are described in {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig}}}.
 The connection pools are described within a tag {{{<Pools>}}}.
 These application pools must not be confused with the accounting pool.
 
 It is planned to support 2 DB access simultaneously. This feature is however not available.

== DB Connection ==

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/dburl}}}
 String value.
 Gives the jdbc url identifying the database holding the application tables.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/dbuser}}}
 String value.
 Database user able to access application tables.
 Mandatory field.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/CryptedDbpassword}}}
 String value.
 Crypted password associated with the provided user.
 It's in encrypted hexadecimal form.
 A separate crypting utility can generate this password.
 It must be used on the target machine!!!
 Not a mandatory field.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/CryptKey}}}
 String value.
 Key used to decrypt the crypted password.
 This key is the clear value given to generate the crypted password.
 It must match the key given to the separate crypting utility that has generated the crypted password.
 Not a mandatory field.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/dbConnectionUrlOptionalParams}}}
 Optional parameter string appended to {{{dburl}}}.
 It is must be set to {{{"currentPackageSet=NACA;keepDynamic=yes;clientProgramName=$FoundPoolName;"}}}
 The $ placeholders are used to identify the pool within DB2 administration console.
 {{{$RequestedPoolName}}} will be replaced at runtime by the name of the connection pool found.
 {{{$RequestedPoolName}}} will be replaced at runtime by the name of the connection pool requested.
 Not a mandatory field.
 
 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/dbenvironment}}}
 Name of the Database environment to use.
 This is a table prefix that must exists within database.
 Not a mandatory field.
 
 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/driverClass}}}
 JDBC driver class name used to connect to the db.
 Set it to {{{"com.ibm.db2.jcc.DB2Driver"}}} for DB2 or UDB support.
 Not a mandatory field.
 
 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/CloseCursorOnCommit}}}
 Boolean value.
 Set to true to close cursor when a commit is issued.
 It is recommanded in DB2 to close them due to poor network performance problems.
 Not a mandatory field.
 
 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/AutoCommit}}}
 Boolean value.
 Set to true to open connection in autocommit mode. Should be set to {{{"false"}}}.
 Not a mandatory field.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/validationQuery}}}
 SQL clause that must always succeed, used to check the connection validity. Used to validate the DB connection after opening it.
 Typically set to {{{"select * from SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1"}}}.

== Connection pooling ==

=== Tags ===

 Connection pooling parameters are described in tag {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/Pools}}} that can contain several tags {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/Pools/Pool}}}.
 Each tag {{{Pool}}} is allowing to size explicitely a pool of connexions, linked to a transaction.
 When a program (treating a transaction) is requesting a DB connection, it is taken in the pool of connexions linked to the current transaction.
 This is allowing a very detailed handling of the DB connexion resources regarding to the frequency of the used transactions.
 There is no need to list all the transactions.
 The ones that do not have a connection pool defined are taken in a "common pot" whose transaction name is an empty string.
 We must therefore have at least one tag {{{Pool}}} defined whose name is "" in order to define the default value of the connexion pool for the transaction do not have a specific definition.

 These pools are defined as accounting connections pools, but are not mixed.

 All nacaRT DB connections are pooled internally. This includes the accounting connections.
 The pooling supports multiple pools. In the case of accounting, there is only one pool.

 {{{conf/SequencerConfig/SQLConfig/Pools/Pool/Name}}}
 Gives the name of the db connection pool.
 If the name is {{{Generic}}}, then this pool is used by all programs that are not defining their own pool.
 There must only one pool with name {{{"Generic"}}}.
 If the name is not {{{"Generic"}}}, then this pool wil be reserved for the program whose is given in value {{{"ProgramId"}}}.
 This field is mandatory.

 {{{conf/Accounting/Pools/Pool/ProgramId}}}
 Gives the name of the program that can use this connection pool.
 If the pool's name is {{{"Generic"}}}, then this value to {{{""}}}, as there is not program restriction to use this pool.

 {{{conf/Accounting/Pools/Pool/MaxConnection}}}
 Integer value.
 Maximum number of connections that this pool can hold.
 When a transaction is launched, a connection is taken from the pool associated with the transaction's first program, or (if no specific definition found) from the generic pool.
 The connection is returned to the pool when the transaction finishes.
 There can be no more than {{{MaxConnection}}} taken simultaneously from a pool.
 If all connections are obtained by running programs, then the next program requesting an unused connection has to wait until one is returned to the pool (that is it becomes free).
 This field is mandatory.

 {{{conf/Accounting/Pools/Pool/TimeBeforeRemoveConnection_ms}}}
 Time in milliseconds during which a connection can stay open without being used.
 Each time a connection is used by a running program, it's last usage time is resetted.
 When the elapsed time between now and the last usage time is higher than this quantiy of milliseconds, then the connection and all it's prepared statements are closed and removed, as the connection is considered obsolete.
 This is done by the GC thread.
 This value must not be longer than the corresponding database parameter.
 In fact, the db engine can pro-activelly close an obsolete connection, and nacaRT won't be informed of this event.
 It's best to close the connection before the db engine.
 This field is mandatory.

 {{{conf/Accounting/Pools/Pool/MaxStatementLiveTime_ms}}}
 Time in milliseconds during which a prepared statement can stay open without being used.
 If a statement is unused for too long, the DB engine may close it aggressivelly, and nacaRT has no way to be informed of that fact.
 Thus, it's best to pro-activelly close an unsued statement before the db engine.
 This cleanup is done by the GC Thread and when a connection is returned to it's pool.

 {{{conf/Accounting/Pools/Pool/UseExplain}}}
 Boolean value.
 DB2 mode giving all log details.
 Must not be used in production or in a mode where concurrent programs are executed together (non thread safe). 
 To be used in Debug mode only.
 Set to false.
 This field is mandatory.
 
== Special SQL code handling ==

 Some SQL special code may indicate that the db connection is corrupted.
 This tga defines a list of such code.
 Getting one of these code generates an Abort exception which termintaes program and transacton execution.
 An email report is also generated.

 {{{conf/Accounting/ConnectionKillerSQLCodes/Value}}}
 Negative Integer number ranging form -1 to -32767.
 Set the code very carefully, as the transaction is terminated when this code is received.

=== Algorithm ===

 The connection pool is a collection of DB structures that are allocated.
 It is important to keep a DB connection opened as long as possible as this connection is maintaining JDBC resources that are very costly to obtain.
 Thus reusing the same DB connection is allowing to significantly reduce the mandatory server resources, as well as reducing time response for the end user.
 Each DB connection is also having a list of ready to use SQL statements that have been prepared earlier in case they have been already used once.
 The preparation of those statements are also costly in terms of server CPU resources, host (DRDA) and must be reused intensively.
 
 The algorithm for handling the connection pool is the following:
  * A program is launched --> it is attributed to a transaction --> it is requesting a DB connection
  
  * NacaRT is identifying the defined connection pool for the current transaction.
    In case there is no definition, NacaRT is going to use the "" transaction.
    
  * In case a pre-allocated connection is available in the pool, it is then vlidated.
    This validation is based on the fact that it has been used since at least {{{TimeBeforeRemoveConnection_ms}}} millisecnds, and that the server has not closed this connection.
    If the connection is valid, it is attributed to the requesting program.
    If the connection is invalid, the invalid connection is destroyed (resulting in the fact that the associated cache are also destroyed), and the pool connection attribution mechanism is restarting from the beginning.
    
  * If there is no pre-allocated connection available into the pool (meaning that the pool is empty), then a new connection is created.
    Please, note that at this step, the notion of maximum concurrent connections is not considered.
    The concept is that a program requesting a connection must always receive a connection, without having any artificial limitation.
    
  * The program is executing, using the current connection.
    The different SQL statements executed are cached into the SQL statement cache.
    
  * When the program is ending, the program tries to give the connection back to the pool.
    A control about the number of connections in the pool is performed.
    In case there is already {{{MaxConnection}}} connections in the pool, NacaRT will perform {{{NbLoopWaitFreeConnection}}} attempts to try to remove invalid connection from the pool till the number of connections is below {{{MaxConnection}}}.
    This means that NacaRT will try to removed timed-out connections and/or connections that have been closed by the DB server.
    After each attempt, NacaRT will try to wait for {{{TimeBeforeRemoveConnection_ms}}} milliseconds.
    If after all those attempts, the pool is still full, then the current connection will be destroyed and will not be given back to the pool.
    
  The pool is handled using a circular buffer: this means that we are getting back the older connection.
  The goal is that all the connections are reused as much as possible in an equally manner between themselves, in order to avoid or limit as much as possible time-outs.
 