#summary NacaRT - Configuration - Execution environment
#labels NacaRT, Configuration - Execution environment
#sidebar NacaRTTOC
= NacaRT - Configuration - Execution environment =

== Execution environment ==

 NacaRT is a runtime that will execute the Cobol to Java transcoded applications.

 NacaRT can be executed in the context of a Tomcat application server, or independantly, without any application server.

 The different execution modes are detailled below.
 
=== Transactional ===

==== Description ====

 The execution in the transactional mode is the normal execution mode for the transactional transcoded programs.
 
 NacaRT is using several Tomcat servlets:
  * InitServlet: this servlet is used to initialize the Naca system.
  * XSLTServlet: this servlet is used to pass the screens to the browsers and to collect the values filled in by the users. 
  * PrintScreenServlet: this servlet is used to provide the Print Screen feature.
  * PopupServlet: this servlet is used to display the semantic context menus.
 
==== JVM parameters ====

 {{{-Xms800m}}}
 This parameter is defining the memory heap that has to be reserved into the JVM.
 Its value is set to 800 Mo.
 This parameter must be choosen accordingly with the type of application.

 {{{-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote}}}
 This parameter is defining the usage of the JMX administration interface.

 {{{-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.port=8999}}}
 This parameter is defining the JMX administration listening interface port.
 This is the default value.
 Beware: only one process can use this port. This port is therefore not shareable for a defined IP address by several JVM or webapp within the same JVN.

 {{{-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate=false}}}
 This parameter is defining the usage of the authentication feature.
 Authentication is not required.
 Parameter value is set to {{{false}}}.

 {{{-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.ssl=false}}}
 This parameter is defining the usage of the SSL protocol feature.
 SSL protocol is not required.
 Parameter value is set to {{{false}}}.

 -XX:MaxPermSize=200m
 This parameter is defining the memory non-heap that has to be reserved into the JVM.
 Its value is set to 200 Mo.
 This memory space is used to store the binary code of the transcoded programs.
 This parameter must be choosen accordingly with the type of application.

=== Batch ===

==== Description ====

 The execution in batch mode is launched via a command line interface, outside any application server.

 All the parameters have to start by the character {{{"-"}}}.

 The program is started by launching the {{{"Java"}}} executable. The main class containing the method {{{main}}} is {{{"nacaLib.base.CJMap"}}}.

==== Command line arguments ====

===== Mandatory command line parameters =====

 The following command line parameters are mandatory:
 (All the parameters have to start with the character {{{"-"}}}).

  {{{-Path=String}}}
  This parameter is defining the path where the binaries can be found.

  {{{-ConfigFile=String}}}
  This parameter is defining the path and the filename of the NacaRT configuration file (this file is referred to as {{{nacaRT.cfg}}}).

  {{{-Program=String}}}
  This parameter is defining the file that will be executed.

  {{{-log=String}}}
  This parameter is defining the path and the filename of the NacaRT configuration log file.

  {{{-batch}}}
  This parameter is defining the execution mode that will be set to batch execution mode.

===== Optional parameters =====

 Some optional parameters can be specified.

 They are used to associate:
 * a logical file name to a physical file name and path
 and/or
 * a software functional behaviour to an option name

 They can defined using:
 * the command line
 and/or
 * system environment variables

===== Using the command line =====

 The parameters are added to the command line after the mandatory parameters.

 The syntax is the following:

 {{{-File.<logical_name>=<path>[,ext][,ascii*|,ebcdic]}}}

 All the parameters have to start with the character {{{"-"}}}.

 {{{<logical_name>}}}
 This parameter is defining the {{{logical name}}} used into the application associated to the physical file that is considered.
 This parameter is mandatory.
 This parameter is a case sensitive {{{string}}}.

 {{{<path>}}}
 This parameter is defining the {{{path}}} to the physical file that is considered.
 This parameter is mandatory.
 This parameter is a case sensitive {{{string}}} under Unix, is not a case sensitive {{{String}}} under Windows.

 {{{[,ext]}}}
 This parameter is indicating that the {{{ext}}} open mode is forced when opening a filem indicating from outside the program that this file is expendable, even if it is not open explicitely in this mode inside the program.
 This parameter is optional.

 {{{[,ascii*|,ebcdic]}}}
 This parameter is indicating the file encoding format.
 This parameter is optional.
 The two values {{{,ascii*|,ebcdic}}} are exclusives.
 This parameter is set by default to {{{ascii}}}.

 Sample:
  * the {{{ebcdic}}} encoded file {{{Customers}}} located in {{{/opt/file/APPLICATIONCustomers.txt}}}
  * Command line argument: {{{-File.Customers=/opt/file/APPLICATIONCustomers.txt,ebcdic}}}

===== Using system environment variables =====

 The parameters are defined as system environment variables.

 The syntax is the following:

 {{{File.<logical_name>=<path>[,ext][,ascii*|,ebcdic]}}}

 All the parameters must NOT start with the character {{{"-"}}}.

 Refer to the previous section for an explanation of all the parameters.

 Sample:
  * the {{{ebcdic}}} encoded file {{{Customers}}} located in {{{/opt/file/APPLICATIONCustomers.txt}}}
  * Environment variable: {{{File.Customers}}}
  * Value: {{{/opt/file/APPLICATIONCustomers.txt,ebcdic}}}

==== JVM parameters ====

=== Emulweb ===
 
==== Description ====

 The execution in Emulweb mode is used only in test and debug mode.

 This mode is allowing the execution of testing scenarii from outside the context of an application server.
 
 The program is started by launching the {{{"Java"}}} executable. The main class containing the method {{{main}}} is {{{"idea.emulweb.IDEAEmulWeb"}}}.

==== Command line arguments ====

 The following command line parameters are optional but the first one.
 (All the parameters have to start with the character {{{"-"}}}) but the first one that have to be defined as the first one.

 {{{String}}}
 This parameter is defining the path and the filename of the NacaRT configuration file (this file is referred to as {{{nacaRT.cfg}}}).
 This parameter must be the 1st parameter to be specified.
 This parameter must not start with the character {{{"-"}}}).
 This parameter is a {{{string}}}.
 
 {{{-cacheStruct}}}
 This parameter is indicating if the pool structures is going to be used.
 This parameter is a {{{boolean}}}.
 The recommanded value is {{{true}}}.

 {{{-loop=number}}}
 This parameter is defining the number of times a scenario will be played per thread.
 This parameter is allowing to perform load tests.
 This parameter is a {{{number}}}.
 The default value is 1.

 {{{-nbThreads=number}}}
 This parameter is defining the number of concurrent execution threads.
 All the threads will execute the same scenario, as many times as specified by the parameter {{{-loop}}}
 This parameter is a {{{number}}}.
 The default value is 1.
 
 {{{-noOutputExport}}}
 This parameter is indicating if the produced HTML screens will be saved onto the hard disks at runtime.
 If this parameter is indicated, the HTML screens will be stored as files in the folder defined by the parameter {{{}}}.
 This parameter is a {{{boolean}}}.
