#summary Naca - Whitepaper
#labels Naca, Whitepaper
#sidebar HomeTOC
= Naca - Whitepaper =

== Introduction ==

 The NacaTrans implements a Cobol to Java transcoder engine.
 It's designed as a compiler, that takes Cobol BMS source files and output is java or XML files.
 As a compiler, it uses a traditional compiler architecture: lexer, syntax analyser, semantic analyser, generator.
 All these compilations steps are implemented in the single Naca's Nacatrans module.
 Automatic migration of Cobol to maintainable Java (transcoding + runtime)

 NACA was about replacing an IBM mainframe under MVS/OS390 (zOS) with Intel servers on Linux.
 The project started in January 2003 and successfully ended on june 30, 2007.
 It was on purpose implemented in a 100% iso-functional way, i.e. without any functional / applicational improvement brought during the process of  trans-coding itself and by the transcoding engine.
 4 millions lines of COBOL were 100% automatically trans-coded toward their Java equivalent.

 The savings in cash-outs amounted to a total of 3 millions euros, 85% of the initial yearly level.

 Publicitas now release its homegrown tools for this transcoding in open source

 For more information on the NACA project (objectives, achievements, etc...) , check this page on our blog at http://technology.publicitas.com/2008/07/17/project-naca-migration-from-an-ibm-mainframe-to-intellinux-servers-rationale-and-strategy/

 For more information about the tools that have been open sourced, check this page at http://technology.publicitas.com/2008/07/17/en-project-naca-open-sourcing-gpllgpl-of-the-tools-for-transcoding-cobol-programs-to-java/
