#summary Naca - Whitepaper - Tools details
#labels Naca, Whitepaper
#sidebar NacaTOC

= What is Naca? [-->Naca0201 click here] =

= Naca - Whitepaper - Tools details =

== Cobol to Java transcoder: NacaTrans ==

 This tool is a critical component of the naca software stack.

 It can convert the following type of Cobol source files:
  * CICS programs
  * Batch programs
  * UDB Stored procedure
  * Copy
  * Called programs

 This tool takes a Cobol source file or list of Cobol source files and produces one or many output Java source files.
 The dependencies for a given Cobol source file are taken in account during transcoding operation.
 For example, if a CICS program requires a copy source, it's also transcoded.
 The list of file to transcode can be grouped by category (Batch / Online) and by CICS transaction.

 The transcoder produces the following files:
  * Java output files representing:
    * Online programs, from Cobol - CICS input programs.
    * Batch programs, from Cobol - batch input programs.
    * Batch programs, from Cobol - batch input programs.
    * Store procedure programs from Cobol DB2 stored procedures.
    * Called programs from Cobol routines, used as a called program.
    * Copy files from Cobol Copy.
    * Copy file and XML resource file from CICS Map screens Copy.
  * An error/warning output list.
  * A statistics file, giving metrics of the transcoded sources.
  * A log file.

 The transcoder can be used in multiple containers, depending on it's usage:
  * As a centrally managed resource, either through the integration server or directly through the build server.
    This is used for daily/continuous transcoding build.
  * As a local developer's tool, into he's workstation.
    This is used as a standalone developer tools.
  * As an Eclipse plug-in. This feature enables Cobol developers to maintain Cobol source files, even after the migration is completed.
    This permits Java untrained Cobol developers to maintain Cobol source code.
    They can develop / maintain Cobol source files, transcode them in Java within their Eclipse environment, and then run them directly in Eclipse.
    This helps lowering stress and formation pressure to the Cobol teams.

 The programs produced by NacaTrans are not bound to a specific container.
 In fact, they can run the same in these various containers:

  In production:
    * Within a Tomcat web-apps container.
    * As a Command line executable.
    * Within a UDB instance, as a stored procedure.
    * Legacy transcoded programs can be reused by normal java applications. Thus, they are interoperable.

 In development stages:
    * Within a Tomcat web-apps container.
    * As a Command line executable.
    * Within the NacaTools server, for testing purpose and playback scenario execution.
    * Within a UDB instance, as a stored procedure.
    * Within a Tomcat web-apps container using remote debugging.
    * Within the Eclipse debugger, optionally using a profiler (JProfiler for example).

== Naca runtime library: Naca's NacaRT ==

 This java files generated by the transcoder makes a wide usage of a Naca specific runtime library.
 This library supports and emulates a full MVS Cobol syntax support and some Online and Batch utilities.
 It also supports execution of transcoded  Filepac scripts.
 NacaRT is another critical part of the Naca Software Stack.
 It requires Sun or IBM JRE (Java Runtime Environment) version 1.5 or greater.

== Naca operation management: Naca's NacaTools ==

 This component is implemented as a web server.
 It provides multiple screens, to ease daily operations before, during, and after migration.
 These covered operations include:
  * As a initial preparation step, all programs must be inventoried and registered.
    This inventory part is centrally managed by the "NacaTools" server.
  * During preparation of the migration, all programs must be converted.
    The various stages of conversion for all inventoried programs are maintained by this web-server.
  * All converted programs must be deeply tested before migration.
    These tests can be run manually or automatically, and their status are registered centrally.
  * Statistics can be generated, reporting the advancement of conversions and tests.
  * Before and during migration, files must be transferred from host to servers.
  * After migration, some programs may be still maintained as Cobol source files.
    NacaTools automates the daily conversion of these programs...
  * During tests and after migration, servers must be monitored. A screen that sums-up all servers' status is available.
