#summary Naca - Whitepaper - Required environments
#labels Naca, Whitepaper
#sidebar NacaTOC

= What is Naca? -->[Naca0201 click here] =

= Naca - Whitepaper - Required environments =

== Introduction ==

 Naca targets a Java environment for enterprise legacy applications.

 There are multiple environment to consider, depending on it's usage.

 Most components are open source based, thus helping lowering considerably the cost of ownership of these infrastructure elements.

== Production environment ==

=== Production server infrastructure ===

 Depending on application scaling, multiple physical servers may be required.

 Each server must match these requirements:
  * Standard Intel/AMD X86 hardware with optional multi-core/multi-CPU support.
  * Linux 32 or 64 bits.
    64 bits is recommended for large applications support due to memory constraints on 32 bits platforms...
    The preferred distribution is RedHat Enterprise, but other choices are possible.
  * Sun's Java JRE >= 1.5 in 32 or 64 bits edition.
  * Apache's Tomcat.
  * NacaRT library, and the required third part libraries.

 These required libraries are all open source software only.

  * Transcoded application binaries.
  * Production environment configuration files.

=== Central database server ===

 It can be either:

  * MVS based:
    * IBM DB/2 with DRDA access.
      Note: The access to DB2 through DRAD impose a performance penalty.
      However, cares has been taken by NacaRT to limit at most this penalty.
  * X86 based:
    * IBM UDB on x86 computer.

=== File server to store flat files for batch processing ===

  * Linux box on Intel X86 hardware.

=== End user workstation ===

  * Any Windows computer with Microsoft Internet Explorer 6 or 7 support.

  Note:  There is no additional hardware / software requirement.
  All screens outputs produced by Naca are HTML based.
  Thus, there are no deployment requirements for user workstations.

== Development Environment ==

=== Principle ===

 This environment is used before migration to prepare it, and after to maintain the applications.

=== Server infrastructure ===

  * Source code repository (CVS for example), using a Windows / Linux box.
  * NacaTools web server.
    * Linux box on Intel X86 hardware
    * Tomcat
    * Ant or Anthill Pro
    * Ant scripts for build processing
    * NacaTools web site
  * File server to store flat files for batch processing
    * Linux box on Intel X86 hardware

=== Developer workstation ===

 These persons are in charge of maintaining the Cobol or Java source code.

 Requirements:

  * Intel/Amd X86 computer with at least 1Gb of Ram (2Gb recommanded).
  * Windows or Linux.
  * Sun Java JDK >= 1.5.
  * JMX console.
  * Tomcat.
  * Eclipse >= 3.2 with Tomcat integration plug-in.
  * NacaTrans Eclipse plug-in.
  * CVS / Subversion repository integration.
  * NacaRT + third part libraries.
  * Source code of Cobol files.
  * Tools to access to various Linux boxes.

=== Tester workstation ===

 The testing phase prior migration imposes the creation of scenarios.
 These scenarios are scripts that are created by running a instrumented QWS3270 terminal emulation software.
 The persons who create these scenarios require this commercial component.

 Requirements:
  * X86 hardware running Microsoft Windows. XP Professional (Vista untested).
  * Jolly Giant's QWS3270 and it's naca custom modification.
