#summary NacaRT - JMX Console - Close site
#labels NacaRT, JMX Console
#sidebar NacaRTTOC

= What is Naca? [-->Naca0201 click here] =

== NacaRT - JMX Console - Close site ==

=== Close site handling (# App_Close) ===

 Closing the online site can be done in two ways:
 * Manually
 * Planned

 The handling of the manually closure is realized via the following JMX screen:

 The bean #App_Close is displayed when the site is open.
 The tab "Attributes" is giving a summary of the conditions defining the launch status:
 {{{A_ApplicationmanualStatus}}}: manual launch status
 {{{B0_ApplicationStandardStatus}}}: status linked with the use of the standard calendar configuration file
 {{{B1_ApplicationcustomStatus}}}: Status linked with the use of the custom calendar configuration file
 {{{C_ApplicationCurrentstatus}}}: final launch status
 {{{__ManualCloseReason}}}: allows to fill in the field "value" giving the reason why the site is going to be closed.
 Beware, this value must be multilingual. Do not forget to validate the field with pressing "Enter".

 The next screen is allowing to close the site manually, or to reload the calendar files:

 Handling site open (# App_Open).

 When the site is closed, the bean # App_Close is not displayed, but the bean # App_Open is displayed in the left column.
 We then cannot have the beans # App_Open and # App_Close displayed at the same time:

 The same informations can be accesible in # App_Close.

 The tab "Operations" is:
